add: use SO_REUSEPORT on platform supporting it (#4703)
PostgREST/postgrest: CHANGELOG.md

- Add config `db-timezone-enabled` for optional querying of timezones by @taimoorzaeem in #4751
- Log schema cache queries timings on `log-level=debug` by @steve-chavez in #4805
- Shutdown should wait for in flight requests by @mkleczek in #4702

> - Use SO_REUSEPORT on platforms supporting it by @mkleczek in #4703 #4694

Reviewer: I started looking at this PR by looking at the changelog. As a user I wonder: "so what?". I have no idea what that means. The changelog should be user facing, not developer facing.

Author: Updated, please re-check.

> - Enable starting multiple PostgREST instances using the same ports on platforms supporting it by @mkleczek in #4703 #4694

Reviewer 2: Hm, not sure but maybe we should mention the new config option in the CHANGELOG?

```suggestion
- Add config `server-reuseport` to allow starting multiple PostgREST instances using the same port on supported platforms by @mkleczek in #4703, #4694
```

Author: Done

- Shutdown should wait for in flight requests by @mkleczek in #4702
- Fix login with uppercase and mixed case role names by @taimoorzaeem in #4678
- Remove automatic transaction retries on `40001 (serialization_failure)` errors to prevent replication lag by @laurence in #3673

> - Enable starting multiple PostgREST instances using the same ports on platforms supporting it by @mkleczek in #4703 #4694

Reviewer: Oh, interesting, is that true? Can I start multiple instances and run them in parallel? I thought this was only possible in some kind of seamless transition way while starting one and stopping the other, but this reads as if I could run them in parallel indefinitely?

Author: Yes, that's correct. `SO_REUSEPORT` is a poor man's loadbalancer

Reviewer: I guess we have to keep that in mind for odd test failures or bug reports. Where the user would get a "port already in use" error before, when they accidentally started multiple instances of postgrest, they will now get requests randomly served from different instances. This might be *very* confusing...

Author: Yeah… We might guard it with a config flag that’s off by default. But I’m not too keen on adding yet another config property.

Open to suggestions though.

Reviewer: > I’m not too keen on adding yet another config property.

same!

I don't have any better suggestions right now, I think reusing the port is a sane behavior for most actual deployments.

Author: https://www.hyrumslaw.com
https://xkcd.com/1172/

Reviewer 3: This looks pretty cool, but it should be a feature in the CHANGELOG? 

> Where the user would get a "port already in use" error before, when they accidentally started multiple instances of postgrest, they will now get requests randomly served from different instances. This might be very confusing...

@mkleczek Can we detect when we're reusing a port and emit a log in that case? That would clear up the confusion IMO.

Also, this should be listed as breaking change in the CHANGELOG too

Reviewer 3: Also, since it's a feature, it needs some docs.. it looks like it could be coupled with the idea on https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4702#issuecomment-4328661640. I can help with that.

Reviewer 3: I see there were some docs added, what about the [log I mentioned above](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4703#discussion_r3155337967)?

Author: > I see there were some docs added, what about the [log I mentioned above](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4703#discussion_r3155337967)?

The log entry is in "Added" section - is that what you asked for or I am missing something?

Reviewer 3: I asked a different thing above:
> Can we detect when we're reusing a port and emit a log in that case? That would clear up the confusion IMO.
> https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4703#discussion_r3155337967

I mean log as in "server logs".

Author: > I asked a different thing above:
> 
> > Can we detect when we're reusing a port and emit a log in that case? That would clear up the confusion IMO.
> > [#4703 (comment)](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4703#discussion_r3155337967)
> 
> I mean log as in "server logs".

I don't think there is a way to detect port conflict when using `SO_REUSEPORT`. We could try to detect conflicts before startup by trying to connect to the ports we want to listen on. But that would make the startup longer and brittle (ie. what would be the connect timeout for such attempts).

I also don't think it is worth it. Right now we only set `SO_REUSEPORT` on server socket. Conflicts of `admin_port` will cause startup failure.
So in practice it is very improbable that a user starts two instances on the same port by mistake. The most common situation is accidentally reusing the same configuration for two instances but right now it would fail because admin port must be different.

Reviewer 3: > So in practice it is very improbable that a user starts two instances on the same port by mistake.

I remember related reports back on the gitter days, don't think it's unlikely at all.

> The most common situation is accidentally reusing the same configuration for two instances but right now it would fail because admin port must be different.

That's the thing, we don't start the admin server by default as the admin port is not defined.

WDYT of enabling it by default so we have a clear failure then?

Author: > > So in practice it is very improbable that a user starts two instances on the same port by mistake.
> 
> I remember related reports back on the gitter days, don't think it's unlikely at all.
> 
> > The most common situation is accidentally reusing the same configuration for two instances but right now it would fail because admin port must be different.
> 
> That's the thing, we don't start the admin server by default as the admin port is not defined.

Good point.

> 
> WDYT of enabling it by default so we have a clear failure then?

I am all for it but it seems like somewhat breaking change?
Another option is to gate `SO_REUSEPORT` behind config property (disabled by default). WDYT?

(BTW. this one seems like yet another good candidate for #4654 )

Reviewer 3: > Another option is to gate SO_REUSEPORT behind config property (disabled by default). WDYT?

Yes, for example Nginx has the [reuseport](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#reuseport) setting disabled by default. I'd suggest a bool config called `server-reuseport`.

Reviewer: If we're doing a config option, we should remove the "fallback on error" code and instead error out when SO_REUSEPORT can't be set.

Author: What about `SO_REUSEPORT` on admin server socket? Do we still error out even if `server-reuseport` config is set?

Reviewer: Yes, I think so. If we ever wanted to reuse the admin server port, we should add `admin-server-reuseport` as a config option. `server-xxx` should not affect the admin server.

Reviewer 3: @mkleczek Seeing the docs you added [here](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4703/changes#diff-fcc86090463f6bc0e2b357a5a3a5653323db3dadb76d2280b143ed51dc952970R45-R48) (`"Admin ports are not shared between processes. This keeps
  readiness checks unambiguous"`), would it ever make sense to have reuseport for the admin server? Wouldn't that invalidate zero-down time upgrades?

Author: > @mkleczek Seeing the docs you added [here](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/4703/changes#diff-fcc86090463f6bc0e2b357a5a3a5653323db3dadb76d2280b143ed51dc952970R45-R48) (`"Admin ports are not shared between processes. This keeps readiness checks unambiguous"`), would it ever make sense to have reuseport for the admin server?

IMHO - no.
That's a very common problem in clustered environments: it does not make sense to load balance metrics and health endpoints. `SO_REUSEPORT` is a form of load balancing and the same rule applies.

> Wouldn't that invalidate zero-down time upgrades?

I am not sure I understand.
You can have zero downtime upgrades without admin server running at all. Just start the new instance, wait for it to log "schema cache loaded" (or just wait long enough, ie. 1 minute should be safe), then stop the first instance.

Reviewer 3: Unresolving this conversation since I see the `server-reuseport` config hasn't been added yet. As agreed that should only affect the API server not the admin server.

Author: Implemented `server-reuseport` configuration property.
